feat: cascading application (#274)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: apps/github-cascading-app/README.md

# Github Cascading App

A GitHub App to execute cascading between the repository branches.

## How to install

> The Otter Cascading application can be installed to your organization following via [this link](https://github.com/apps/otter-cascading).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Otter Cascading application can be installed in your organization via [this link](https://github.com/apps/otter-cascading).
```

> The application will need the following permission to work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application will need the following permissions to work:
```

> - **Read** access to checks and metadata

Reviewer: checks is commented in ``app.yml`` file, is this normal ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Read** access to "checks" and "metadata"
```
Just a suggestion to make it clearer

> - **Read** and **write** access to code and pull requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Read** and **write** access to "code" and "pull requests"
```
same here

## How it works

### What it does

The application will look for branches matching the pattern defined in the `cascadingBranchesPattern` option.

> Then it will sort the branches, and based on the current branch you gave as input will figure out if the cascading is needed and on which branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then it will sort the branches and, based on the current branch you gave as input, will figure out if the cascading is needed and on which branch.
```

> If the current branch is the `defaultBranch` given as configuration OR if the current branch is the last one matching the pattern the plugin will do nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the current branch is the `defaultBranch` given as configuration OR if the current branch is the last one matching the pattern, the plugin will do nothing.
```

If the plugin finds a branch candidate for cascading, it will try to create a Pull Request.

### Plugged hooks

The application is plugged to 3 Github webhooks:

> - **push**: Check if one of the branch that requires cascading is updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **push**: Checks if one of the branches that requires cascading is updated.
```

> - **pull_request.complete**: When a cascading pull request is merged, check if a new evaluation of the pull request origin branch is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **pull_request.complete**: When a cascading pull request is merged, checks if a new evaluation of the pull request origin branch is required.
```

- **check_suite**: In case the `bypassReviewers` option is activated, when a check suite is completed (or stale) the application will merge the cascading pull request.

## Configuration

> The Otter Cascading application can be configured via a JSON file following the provided [JSON schema](./schemas/config.schema.json) in one of these possible files:

Reviewer 2: I think it is worth mentioning the priority of the possible config locations

- .github/cascadingrc.json
- .github/.cascadingrc.json
- cascadingrc.json
- .cascadingrc.json

Example:

```json5
// .github/.cascadingrc.json file
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/main/apps/github-cascading-app/schemas/config.schema.json",
  "defaultBranch": "master",
  "ignoredPatterns": []
}
```

### List of configurations

> The following configuration are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configurations are available:
```

| Configuration            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default value                                            | Type       |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| ignoredPatterns          | Ignore the branches that match this pattern for the cascading                                                                                                                                                 | `[]`                                                     | `string[]` |

> | defaultBranch            | The default branch if you have one, if no candidate found with the given pattern this branch will be the last one where the code will be cascaded (the repository default branch will be used if not defined) | *default branch*                                         | `string`   |

Reviewer 2: What is the interest in providing the `defaultBranch` option? Isn't the default repo branch enough?

| cascadingBranchesPattern | Pattern determining if the branch is part of the cascading strategy                                                                                                                                           | `^releases?/\\d+\\.\\d+`                                 | `string`   |
| versionCapturePattern    | Pattern containing a capture to extract the version of a cascading branch                                                                                                                                     | `/((?:0\|[1-9]\\d*)\\.(?:0\|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.0-[^ ]+)?)$` | `string`   |
| bypassReviewers          | Pattern containing a capture to extract the version of a cascading branch                                                                                                                                     | `false`                                                  | `boolean`  |

> > **Note**: The `bypassReviewers` option will require to set the `otter-cascading` bot as **bypass user** able to merge the `cascading/*` pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The `bypassReviewers` option will require to set the `otter-cascading` bot as **bypass user** to be able to merge the `cascading/*` pull requests.
```
